Phtzone Trans Media Artwork

Links 

flickr.com/groups/2220743@N22/		(flickr Phtzone Gallery)
Lucacurci.com/ArtExpo				      (ArtExpo, Italy Venice Borders Fragmented Cities)
					                	      (ArtExpo, Argentina)
scvc.qpoe.com/wordpress

Phtz_tw


Project Outline

Phtzone is a form of antidote and diversion to a 'selfie' oblivion with a focus on how social media technology can be a resourceful energy in rapid and incredulous technological developments.

An 'on the fly' look at society returns intimate transients of networked social behaviour that database Open Social change , adaptation, and evolution in Digital societies. The focus is on access to open source media and public as agents of social communicative space.

The aim to re-evaluate societies spaces and identity exploring open source agency, extended networks and communities.

The content is open source , photos are feed from open source, photography, and social media networks - flickr, twitter, fBK, square, … (inc. instathingy) and the website's photo gallery. For exhibition and the ArtExpo festival the photogallery phtz are animated on a random loop vizualisation on either a single plasma screen or 6 grid LCD (same animation script can be used and set randomly for each LCD pane)

Context and Project Concept

Photos taken using a smart phone camera and smartphone technology. The content is public participation and all photos are accredited on a CC basis and with the photographer and subjects consent.
Quick snaps; reportage photos - taken of people in 'public' spaces (with their consent);  people that in the ‘photographer’s’ opinion look 'comfortable' - that is they are 'comfortable' with themselves – connecting a comfort zone between the photographer and the subject. Photos are uploaded via the project website, social networks and interactive screen. Uploads are immediate via flickr, social media and a mobile phone widget (Bluetooth?) on the project website. The project is active as a Net Art, event / gallery space. 

For all those with a curious interest in the rapid changes in technology both on a global and smaller community basis Phtz is a hybrid project that's scope spans both art and technology. A transitory artwork and global network and can play a vital role in adjusting perceptions and bringing forward new forms, considering and analysing both, including smaller community workshop ‘interventions of change’ in accelerated transitions of technological change.

The form and process is a collaborative interdisciplinary network structure drawing on knowledge and thinking from diverse and immediate sources of thought and research on form, space, public space, 'cultural scripting' syntax space. Development in digital technology inspires new design processes and opens up new territories and terrains - social, spatial and technical. Experimental event spaces, hackspaces and pop up spaces actively collaborate on Phtzone community projects. 

Depending on the screening selected, photos display as animated panes (windows), or grids of photos that update as photos are uploaded onto the project website. With further funding the animation can screen on large scale media screens and media facades as a random photo clouds - the images replenished randomly on a loop. Plasma screens have morphed, peeled wafer thin, can roll up, adhere to façade surfaces, gallery windows allowing an extensive vocabulary of public media activism, connecting public media (bill boards, windows, exterior surfaces) with Art gallery spaces, public environments and media technology.  

ArtExpo Festival (It’s Liquid)

Exhibition of Phtzone at the Venice ArtExpo (Borders, Fragmented Cities May to October) has the potential to exhibit the artwork in multiple formats and sites across Venice and again at the ArtExpo Argentina (June). All funding, sponsorship would facilitate the development of the artwork and project from small scale to a social network with interconnected public events both on a global and intimate scale. By developing the technology for interactive media , and adapting the media for temporary public spaces, transient events enfolding and interconnecting public spaces, social interaction, emergent technologies and digital anthropologies across multi-level spaces and satellite communities. 

Further potential community projects, festivals and events and collaborator / contributor possibilites

Hackspace, community projects, intimate events where audiences can participate, interact closely with the artist and artwork. Studio, event space workshops also encourage audiences to explore the possibilities of art and technology, learn and involve in new social interactive networks.


The project objectives appraisal 

When unknown bloggers bring in 1000s of followers with very little effort and have cult status overnight, the immediate objectives for revision of the website / social portal and research is to adapt and updated the project to encourage intuitive audience participation. Optimising the website and marketing strategies to facilitate a social network portal are immediate requirements for investment.

Investing resources in small event space workshops extends the involvement of participants with both the artwork and artist which invites communication and interaction. The websites also crash with the technological requirements of software and website with little funding or resources to improve. Inspiring imagination and involvement with the development of smart phone tec. apps that participants can use from their phones and a sense of contributing, communing, and involvement in multiple digital communities and networks.

The outcomes of the project are educational, research for visual data on digital cultures and communities; conceptually approaching questions of computational design, architecture and evolving spaces and communities through art activist community project and network
